 
 NON-DISCLOSURE CERTIFICATE 
 
 
I hereby certify my understanding that access to Confidential Information is provided to me 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Non-Disclosure Agreement for the Exchange of 
Energy Management System Model Data  dated as of the _ 11th__ day of ___ August_______, 
20_15_ by and among PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) and the PJM Transmission Owner 
(“Transmission Owner”).  I certify that I have been given a copy of and have read the Non-
Disclosure Agreement, and I agree to be bound by it.  I understand that the contents of the 
Confidential Information, and Notes or other memoranda, or other form of information that 
copies or discloses Confidential Information shall not be disclosed to anyone other than in 
accordance with the Non-Disclosure Agreement. 
 
 
       By_________________________________  
       Print Name: __________________________  
       Title:_______________________________  
       Employed By: ________________________  
       Representing: ________________________  
       Date Signed_________________________  
 
 
 
 
NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT  
FOR THE EXCHANGE OF ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MODEL DATA 
 
 
This Non-Disclosure Agreement (“Agreement”) is made this _ 11th__ day of 
___August____________, 20 15__ by and between PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), a 
Delaware limited liability company, with offices at 2750 Monroe Boulevard, Audubon, PA 
19403 and ___________ __________,  the Undersigned Transmission Owner (“Transmission 
Owner”) (hereinafter PJM and the Undersigned Transmission Owner are collectively referred to 
as “Parties” and individually as a “Party). 
 
RECITALS: 
 
WHEREAS , PJM serves as the Regional Transmission Organization with reliability 
and/or functional control responsibilities over transmission systems involving all or parts of 
thirteen states and the District of Columbia, and operates and oversees wholesale markets for 
electricity pursuant to the requirements of the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (“PJM 
Tariff”) and the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
(“Operating Agreement”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the Transmission Owner s recognize that, while PJM serves as the Regiona l 
Transmission Organization in the PJM region, the Transmission Owners within the PJM region 
 
 perform certain Transmission Functions, as Transmission Functions is defined in section 18 
C.F.R. § 358 of the FERC rules and regulations,  with respect to their individual transmission 
systems and distribution systems.  
 
WHEREAS , the Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to protect and maintain from 
disclosure to third parties the Confidential Information that will be exchanged to facilitate 
reliable operations; and  
 
 WHEREAS,  this Agreement is a statement of the conditions and requirements, 
consistent with the requirements of the Operating Agreement, whereby a Disclosing Party may 
provide Confidential Information to a Party for the purpose of the Party executing its 
Transmission Functions.  
 
 NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual promises made herein intending to 
be legally bound, the Parties agree as follows: 
 
A. Definitions 
 
1. “Agreement” means this Non-Disclosure Agreement as it may be amended, 
modified or otherwise supplemented, as in effect from time to time. 
 
2. “Authority” means a federal, state or local court or federal or state administrative 
agency of competent jurisdiction. 
 
3. “Commission” or “FERC” means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or 
any successor federal agency or commission. 
 
4. “Confidential Information” means a Party’s energy management system model 
data provided or to be provided by a Disclosing Party to another Party.  
Confidential Information shall be disclosed only to Reviewing Representatives 
and only used to enable a Party to perform its Transmission Functions.  
 
5. “Disclosing Party” means the Party furnishing the other Parties with Confidential 
Information. 
 
6. “Law” means any applicable constitutional provision, statute, act, code, law, 
regulation, rule, ordinance, order, decree, ruling, proclamation, resolution, 
judgment, decision, declaration or interpretive or advisory opinion of an 
Authority. 
 
7. “Non-Disclosure Certificate” means the certificate annexed hereto by which 
Reviewing Representatives seeking access to Confidential Information shall 
certify their understanding that such access to Confidential Information is 
provided pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and that each 
Reviewing Representative has read this Agreement and agrees to be bound by it. 
 
 
 8. “Notes” or “Notes of Confidential Information” means memoranda, handwritten 
notes, or other form of information (including electronic form) which copies or 
discloses Confidential Information. 
 
9. “Reviewing Representative” means an employee of a Party who has signed or 
electronically signed a Non-Disclosure Certificate and who is a principal, partner, 
officer, director, employee, agent and other representative of a Party.   Reviewing 
Representative may include a person whose duties include Competitive Duties so 
long as such Reviewing Representative’s receipt and use of Confidential 
Information is not prohibited conduct under FERC’s rules, including Standards of 
Conduct. 
 
10. “Standards of Conduct” means the standards as set forth in 18 C.F.R. Part 358 as 
amended or superseded from time to time 
 
11. “Transmission Owner” shall have the meaning defined in the PJM Tariff. 
 
12. “Third Party Request” means any request or demand by any entity upon a Party or 
Reviewing Representative for release or disclosure of Confidential Information.  
A Third Party Request shall include, but not limited to, any subpoena, discovery 
request, or other request for Confidential Information made by any entity not a 
Party to this Agreement. 
 
13. “Undersigned Transmission Owners” means the Transmission Owners who are 
signatories to this Agreement.  
 
B. Confidential Information - General Non-Disclosure Provisions 
 
The following provisions govern the use of Confidential Information under this 
Agreement. 
 
 1. Disclosure of Confidential Information.   A Disclosing Party may disclose or 
discuss a Party’s Confidential Information with a ny other Party to this Agreement.  The 
disclosure of the Confidential Information is subject to the terms and conditions stated herein.  
Each Party acknowledges the importance to the other Parties of preserving the confidentiality of 
the Confidential Information and that a Disclosing Party is relying on the agreements set forth 
herein in furnishing Confidential Information to a Party.  Each Party shall safeguard the 
Confidential Information at least to the same extent that it would its own confidential 
information. 
 
 2. Reviewing Representative.  A Reviewing Representative shall not have access to 
any Confidential Information unless that Reviewing Representative is required to have the 
information in order to carry out that person’s Transmission Functions responsibilities and has 
executed the attached Non-Disclosure Certificate.  The Reviewing Representative shall deliver a 
copy of his or her executed Non-Disclosure Certificate to PJM.   A Reviewing Representative 
shall not use the Confidential Information or any portion thereof to give any Party or a 
 
 competitor of any Party a competitive or commercial advantage.  A Reviewing Representative 
may make copies or Notes of Confidential Information that shall be subject to this Agreement.  
In the event a Reviewing Representative ceases to be employed or engaged by a Party, or is 
employed, retained, or given duties that include Competitive Duties, (i) the Reviewing 
Representative shall continue to comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement with 
respect to the Confidential Information to which such person previously had access, (ii) the Party 
shall terminate the Reviewing Representative's access to Confidential Information, and (iii) the 
Party shall cause the Reviewing Representative to return or dispose of the Confidential 
Information, or transfer the information to another Reviewing Representative of the Party.  Each 
Party shall advise the Reviewing Representatives that Confidential Information is confidential 
and shall be treated as confidential in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
 3. List of Reviewing Representatives.  PJM shall receive and maintain copies of all 
Non-Disclosure Certificates executed by the Party’s Reviewing Representatives, and shall 
maintain a list of the Reviewing Representatives.  
 
 4. Discussions of Confidential Information.  Parties and Reviewing Representatives 
who have executed this Agreement or a Non-Disclosure Certificate may discuss Confidential 
Information with other Parties and Reviewing Representatives who have executed this 
Agreement or a Non-Disclosure Certificate. 
 
5. Non-Disclosure to Third Parties.   Parties shall not disclose Confidential 
Information to a third party without the prior written approval of the Disclosing Party.  Each 
Party shall treat all Confidential Information in every form as confidential, and shall not reveal, 
divulge or disclose Confidential Information, at any time or for any reason, to any third person or 
entity.  This provision shall survive the expiration, termination or cancellation of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 9. 
 
6. Defend Against Third Party Requests.  Each Party and Reviewing Representative 
shall defend against disclosure of Confidential Information pursuant to any Third Party Request 
through all available legal processes, including, but not limited to, seeking to obtain any 
necessary protective orders.  Each Party and Reviewing Representative shall provide PJM, and 
PJM shall provide each Disclosing Party, with prompt notice of any such Third Party Request or 
legal proceedings, and shall consult with PJM and/or any Disclosing Party in its efforts to deny 
the request or defend against such legal process.  In the event a protective order or other remedy 
is denied, each Party agrees to furnish only that portion of the Confidential Information which its 
legal counsel advises PJM (and of which PJM shall, in turn, advise any Disclosing Party) in 
writing is legally required to be furnished, and to exercise their best efforts to obtain assurance 
that confidential treatment will be accorded to such Confidential Information.   
 
 7. Permitted Limited Disclosure of Confidential Information.  Notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary in this Agreement, a Party may disclose Confidential Information to the 
extent but only to the extent: (a) approved by the Disclosing Party in writing; or (b) required by 
Law or an Authority, but only if: (i) the Party attempts to notify the Disclosing Party as far in 
advance as practicable prior to making disclosure of its intent to disclose Confidential 
Information and of the content and mode of communication of the disclosure; and (ii) the Party 
 
 cooperates with the Disclosing Party's efforts to obtain a protective order protecting the 
Confidential Information from disclosure.  In addition, if disclosure is required by Law or 
Authority, the Party to the extent practicable (and permitted by law), will (1) promptly notify the 
Disclosing Party of the circumstances surrounding the requirement, (2) consult with the 
Disclosing Party on available options to request confidential treatment and/or the advisability of 
taking legally available steps to resist or narrow the request or requirement for disclosure, and (3) 
disclose such Confidential Information only after using all reasonable efforts to comply with 
subsections (1) and (2) above and after cooperating with the Disclosing Party’s reasonable 
efforts to obtain a protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be 
accorded to any portion of the Confidential Information designated for such treatment by the 
Disclosing Party.  The Party will furnish only that portion of the Confidential Information that is 
responsive to the request or requirement for disclosure, and will request that confidential 
treatment be accorded to the Confidential Information by the person(s) to whom the Party is 
required by Law or Authority to disclose the Confidential Information. Notwithstanding anything 
stated in this Agreement, the Disclosing Party shall retain the burden of prosecuting any action 
and/or seeking injunctive relief to prevent disclosure of the Confidential Information. Disclosure 
of Confidential Information in accordance with the terms of this paragraph shall not constitute a 
waiver of the protections under this Agreement or the confidentiality of such Confidential 
Information and such Confidential Information shall continue to be treated as confidential in 
accordance with this Agreement. 
 
 8. Ownership and Use of Confidential Information.  All Confidential Information 
delivered by a Disclosing Party to a Party pursuant to this Agreement shall be and remain the 
property of the Disclosing Party, and such Confidential Information shall be promptly returned to 
the Disclosing Party upon request.  That portion of the Confidential Information that may be 
found in analyses, compilations, studies or other documents prepared by or for a Party and all 
Confidential Information that is oral will be kept by a Party subject to the terms of this 
Agreement or destroyed.  Neither the Party nor its Reviewing Representatives shall use the 
Confidential Information for any purpose whatsoever except for the purpose of executing the 
Reviewing Party’s Transmission Functions.  Once the Party no longer requires the use of such 
information for the purpose of performing its Transmission Functions, the Confidential 
Information shall be returned or destroyed in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
 9. Identification of Confidential Information .  Confidential Information that is in 
writing or other tangible form (including electronic form) shall be subject to this Agreement only 
if it is clearly marked as "Confidential" when disclosed by the Disclosing Party to a Party.  
Confidential Information that is provided orally shall be subject to this Agreement only if its 
confidential nature is announced at the time of disclosure and an outline of the scope of the 
information provided is reduced to writing, with a copy provided to the Party within ten (10) 
calendar days of oral disclosure of the information.  Inadvertent failure to mark Confidential 
Information as “Confidential” at the time it is disclosed shall not be deemed a waiver by the 
Disclosing Party of the protections of this Agreement provided that such Confidential 
Information is identified and marked "Confidential" promptly upon the discovery of its 
inadvertent disclosure.  Confidential Information excludes any information that: (i) the 
Disclosing Party has not specifically notified the Party is confidential; (ii) becomes available to 
the Party or the Reviewing Representative on a non-confidential basis from a source other than:  
 
 (a) the Disclosing Party, or other person acting on behalf of the Disclosing Party; or (b) a Party 
who has confidentiality obligations to the Disclosing Party; (iii) is or becomes generally 
available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the Party or its Reviewing 
Representatives; (iv) was previously known to the Party or its Reviewing Representative free and 
clear of any obligation to keep it confidential; (v) is disclosed to third parties by the Disclosing 
Party without restriction or obligation of confidentiality; (vi) is developed independently by the 
Party as evidenced by documentation made in the ordinary course of business by the Party; or 
(vii) the Disclosing Party notifies the Party that such information is no longer Confidential 
Information. 
 
 10 . Term of Agreement.  This Agreement shall remain in effect unless and until 
terminated by the Parties.  The obligations of the Parties under this Agreement shall continue and 
survive the Transmission Function s for which the Confidential Information was disclosed and 
shall remain binding under this Agreement unless disclosure is permitted under Section 8 or 
required by Law or Authority.  Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the term of protection 
of Confidential Information otherwise protected by Law or Authority. 
 
 11 . Disclaimer of Warranties.  Each Party hereby disclaims and does not make any 
express or implied representation or warranty concerning the accuracy or completeness of 
Confidential Information and no Disclosing Party shall have liability to the Party for the Party’s 
use of Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party.  In addition, nothing in this Agreement 
requires the disclosure of Confidential Information or supersedes the discretion of the Disclosing 
Party.  In addition, nothing in this Agreement requires the disclosure of Confidential Information 
or supersedes the discretion of the Disclosing Party to determine the extent of the Confidential 
Information disclosed.  Disclosure of Confidential Information of any nature shall not obligate 
the Disclosing Party to disclose any further Confidential Information. 
 
 12 . No License.  No license to the Party, under any trademark, patent copyright, mask 
work protection right or any other intellectual property right, is either granted or implied by the 
conveying of Confidential Information to such Party.  None of the Confidential Information 
which may be disclosed by a Disclosing Party shall constitute any representation, warranty, 
assurance, guarantee or inducement by such Disclosing Party to any other Party of any kind, and, 
in particular, with respect to the non-infringement of trademarks, patents, copyrights, or any 
other intellectual property rights, or other rights of third persons. 
 
 13 . No Implied Agreement.  Except as provided herein, no Party shall be under any 
legal obligation of any kind whatsoever by virtue of this Agreement. 
 
 14 . Compliance with Law.  Nothing stated herein shall be construed to require any 
Party to take any action in violation of applicable Laws or regulations. 
 
 15 . Miscellaneous. 
 
a. Binding Effect.  The obligations of the Parties shall be binding on and 
inure to the benefit of their respective heirs, successors, assigns, and 
affiliates. 
 
  
b. Integration.  This Agreement constitutes the Parties’ entire agreement 
concerning the subject matter hereof and may be amended or modified 
only by a subsequent agreement in writing.  A waiver, discharge, 
amendment, modification or termination of this Agreement or any 
provision hereof, shall be valid and effective only if in writing and 
executed by all Parties.  A written waiver of a right, remedy or obligation 
under a provision of this Agreem ent will not constitute a waiver of the 
provision itself, a waiver of any succeeding right, remedy or obligation 
under the provision, or a waiver of any other right, remedy, or obligation 
under this Agreement.  Any delay or failure by a Party in enforcing any 
obligation or in exercising any right or remedy shall not operate as a 
waiver of it or affect that party’s right later to enforce the obligation or 
exercise the right or remedy and a single or partial exercise of a right of 
remedy by a Party does not preclude any further exercise of it or the 
exercise of any other right or remedy of that Party. 
 
c. Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement is held by an Authority to 
be invalid, void or unenforceable in any respect or with respect to 
Confidential Information, such provision in all other respects or with 
respect to all other Confidential Information, as the case may be, and the 
remaining provisions with respect to all Confidential Information, shall 
nevertheless continue in full force and effect without being impaired or 
invalidated and shall be enforced to the full extent permitted by Law. 
 
d. Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more 
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which 
shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
e. Form of Notices.  Every notice, consent or approval required or permitted 
under this Agreement shall be valid only if in writing and delivered 
personally, by mail, by facsimile or by electronic mail, and sent by the 
sender to each other Party at its address or number listed for a Party’s 
Reviewing Representative.  A validly given notice, consent or approval 
will be effective when received if delivered.

The Party receiving Confidential Information acknowledges that any disclosure or use of Confidential Information in violation of this Agreement could cause irreparable harm to the Party disclosing such information, including the risk of loss of life or limb and damage to property, for which monetary damages may be difficult to ascertain or may be inadequate. Accordingly, the Party receiving Confidential Information agrees that the Party disclosing such information will have the right, in addition to any other rights and remedies, to seek injunctive relief for violations of this Agreement.
 
 
f. No Assignment.  Each Party recognizes that breach of its obligations 
hereunder shall cause irreparable harm to the Disclosing Party and agrees 
that in the event of breach, the Disclosing Party shall have in addition to 
any and all remedies at Law, the right to an injunction, specific 
performance or other equitable relief.  A party’s liability for breach of this 
Agreement shall be limited to the dollar amount of any direct damages 
caused by gross negligence, intentional or deliberate misconduct of such 
Party or of its Reviewing Representative.  The Party shall not be liable for 
special, incidental, consequential and indirect damages, court costs and 
attorneys’ fees in connection with any breach hereunder. 
 
  
g. Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and 
governed by the Laws of the State of Delaware exclusive of the conflicts 
of laws provisions. 
 
h. Other PJM Agreements or Tariffs.  This Agreement shall not be construed 
to alter or lessen the protection for confidential treatment of information 
under PJM’s agreements or tariffs, or otherwise pursuant to an order of the 
Commission. 
 
i. Party.  Any entity that becomes a party to the Consolidated Transmission 
Owners Agreement dated December 15, 2005 may become a Party to this 
Agreement by executing a copy, proving an executed copy to PJM and 
giving notice to all parties in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
j. Withdrawal.  A Party may withdraw from this Agreement on 30-day 
notice by giving notice to all Parties in accordance with the notice 
requirements of this Agreement, subject to such withdrawing party 
certifying in writing prior the effectiveness of such withdrawal that:  (i) it 
has returned or destroyed all Confidential Information then in its 
possession; and (ii) it will remain bound by the disclosure limitations 
imposed by this Agreement. 
 
 
IN WITNESSS WHEREOF, the Parties execute this Agreement to be effective as of the 
date first written above. 
 
